# UCSB-COVID-Classification

Previous COVID-19 research has observed lung lesions of COVID-19 are generally peripherally distributed and bilateral, but other viral pneumonia lesions are not subject to those standards. Since these factors distinguishing the pneumonias are location based, we propose a novel method of COVID-19 classification by using segmented overlays as part of the classification process. 

For our segmentation overlay method, we initially tried it on a ResNet34 binary classifier of COVID-19 and PNA. This approach improved the accuracy by 1.54%,  producing a 0.7439 overall accuracy. Extending the method to ResNet152 multi-class classifier, it improved ResNet152 accuracy by 6.74% with an overall accuracy of 0.7790 and improved upon the baseline ResNet50 model by 9.23%. This approach generated 82% subject-wise accuracy, correctly diagnosing 44 out of the 50 test scans.

The Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital CT scan dataset is composed of de-identified images specified by the IRB agreement between the medical center and the University of California, Santa Barbara. The scans taken were acquired as part of the treatment process. For the scans included in the dataset, we compiled a set of scans where radiologists reviewed the scans and saved them then sent us ones they were unable to classify between the pneumonias. The healthy control group of patients were taken from January 1st, 2019 through May 1st, 2020. CT findings after January 1st, 2020 are excluded from the dataset due to the low sensitivity of COVID-19 testing. The testing group is composed of patients with confirmed COVID-19 by SARS-CoV2 RT-PCR testing along with patients with positive IgM or IgG following a symptomatic period. Patients with multiple positive respiratory PCR panels are excluded (i.e. patients with influenza and COVID-19). Other exclusion criteria include patients with incomplete data, duplicated patient subsets, and patients whose data may be difficult or impossible to anonymize. 233 CT scans from the Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital were included in the study, with 74 scans diagnosed of normal healthy controls, 104 scans diagnosed of infection of COVID-19, 76 diagnosed of infection of non-COVID Pneumonia (PNA). 
